The late Frank Mabasa (49). Photo supplied. Date: 08 June 2017 By: Andries van ZylViewed: 548A visit to the Kruger National Park (KNP) will never be the same, especially for avid bird watchers, with the passing away of legendary bird guide Frank Mabasa.KNP management expressed their heartfelt condolences to the family of Frank, who passed away last month at the age of 49. Frank was an attendant at the Pafuri picnic site and was affectionately known as the &ldquo;Bird Guide&rdquo; because of his knowledge of the birds in the area and for the great service guests received from him at the picnic site. The public also expressed their affection for the late Frank Mabasa and condolences have been pouring in on social media platforms such as the SANParks Facebook&nbsp;page since his passing. Of interest to conservationists and experienced birders was that although Frank was not a trained and qualified field guide, he impressed guests for being one of the most competent and knowledgeable bird guides they had ever come across. Frank was not only articulate, but also knew the calls of birds and would provide additional and interesting facts of the species to those visiting the site.&ldquo;In his 29 years of service in the organization, Frank ranked as one of the most dedicated and conscientious staff members in the history of the KNP. An amazing human being and a legend in his own right, we have not just lost a hardworking attendant at the picnic site but an expert who, regardless of his educational background, stepped out of his comfort zone to study what he loved - his birds - we will dearly miss him,&rdquo; said KNP&rsquo;s managing executive, Glenn Phillips, in a press release issued this week.Frank joined SANParks in 1988 as Hut Attendant in Skukuza Rest Camp. After eight years, he moved on to become Petrol Attendant for two years and later transferred back to the Hut Attendant position at the same camp. In 2000, Frank moved to the Pafuri picnic spot as the picnic spot attendant and worked there until he passed away. A memorial service in Frank&rsquo;s honour was held on 27 April and he was laid to rest on 29 April at Matiyani, a village outside Punda Maria Gate.Andries joined the Zoutpansberger&nbsp;and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.Email: andries@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... 