Date: 02 June 2017 By: Anton van ZylViewed: 19The excitement is starting to build up for the two-day carnival in aid of charity organised by Bergcare. The carnival takes place on 16 and 17 June at Ridgeway College in Louis Trichardt.The big drawcard for the little ones (or young at heart) will probably be the funfair where the children can enjoy themselves on a variety of rides. There will also be a number of artists, performing anything from country music to traditional boeremusiek.Bergcare is well known in the region and reaches out to the less fortunate in the community. It is supported by most of the church denominations as well as charitable organisations. Bergcare was formed several years ago to try and co-ordinate charitable organisations and ensure that the scarce resources available for welfare are channelled in an effective manner.Ridgeway College&rsquo;s grounds are scheduled to undergo a metamorphosis on 16 and 17 June. Apart from the funfair, a large variety of stalls, selling everything from &ldquo;pap and vleis&rdquo; to biltong, will be available. The carnival will also allow artisans, artists and craftspeople from across the region to showcase their products. Stalls cost R250 per day, making it very affordable for all budding entrepreneurs.According to the organisers, the aim is to make the two days enjoyable for everyone in the family. The dads (and moms of course) can visit the various car exhibitions, showcasing the latest models the vehicle manufacturers have on offer. Numerous other stalls displaying clothing and accessories will also exhibit their wares.The more adventurous can partake in the tug-of-war competition, where business teams take on each other to test their strength. Entries for this competition have opened and it only costs R50 per team. There is also a very exciting &ldquo;colour run&rdquo;, where the young ones can pelt each other with balloons filled with colourful paint.On Thursday morning (15 June), between 09:00 and 12:00, all local nursery schools are invited to bring their children to the carnival. This will give them the opportunity to see some of the stalls and enjoy some of the rides at the funfair.Entrepreneurs wishing to book a stall&nbsp;must contact the Dutch Reformed Church (015 516 3902) or Franc&eacute; Krugel at 0763055756. They can also be contacted for more information on the event.Entrance at the gates will cost R20 per person.Anton van Zyl has been with the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror for over 25&nbsp;years. He graduated at the the Rand Afrikaans University (now University of Johannesburg) and obtained a BA Communications degree. He is a founder member of the Association of Independent Publishers.Email: anton@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... 