Mayor Mihloti Muhlope delivers her budget speech at Madimbo Community Hall.Date: 25 June 2017 By: Wilson DzebuViewed: 316Musina Mayor Mihloti Muhlope issued a strong warning to councillors and officials who engage in corrupt activities, nepotism and abuse of power. &ldquo;Anyone found guilty of such offences will be subjected to the strongest disciplinary action. We pride ourselves on clean administration to enhance efficient service delivery to our people.&rdquo;&nbsp;Muhlope was addressing traditional leaders, representatives of stakeholders and invited guests during her 2017/18 state-of-the-municipality address (budget speech) at Madimbo Community Hall, Ward 8, last week.She said the municipality remained committed to the realization of the five key performance areas, which include good governance and public participation, municipal transformation and organizational development, basic infrastructure and service delivery, local economic development and municipal financial viability and management.&ldquo;It is a pleasure to announce that our latest audit report from the auditor general (AG) is unqualified. An unqualified audit opinion is when the AG concludes that financial records and statements are fairly and appropriately presented, and in accordance with generally recognized accounting principles. We are on course to achieve the targets set out in the Operation Clean Audit.&rdquo;When giving a service delivery report summary, Muhlope said there were investments which were playing a major role in consolidating the economic backbone of the municipality. &ldquo;These&nbsp;include the extension of Musina Mall, construction of the N1 bypass, Venetia Mine underground exploration, Musina Special Economic Zone, Limpopo Eco-Industrial Park, and Nwanedi Agri Park, to name but a few. Other sectors that are bringing in investors into our municipality include agriculture, construction, trade, transport and tourism. All these investments have created thousands of jobs for&nbsp;our local people.&rdquo;She said that,&nbsp;despite successes, the municipality had&nbsp;some challenges that were being addressed. &ldquo;We are unable to provide some of the services due to the high number of consumer debtors, which stand at&nbsp;R44,8 million. We are continuously engaging defaulting community members to understand the value of paying for the services they get from the municipality. The Eskom debt, which now stands at R115 million, has been a cause of concern for Council. However, we have entered into a repayment plan with the power utility to make sure that we settle the debt as speedily as possible.&rdquo;She added that the municipality was currently offering free services to more than 3 000 households from indigent backgrounds. &ldquo;Each household receives six kiloliters of water, 55 kilowatts of electricity and free sewerage and refuse removal services every month. We are slowly winning the war against poverty and unemployment as we have employed 210 community members through our expanded public works programme.&nbsp; We can all agree that Musina is now better than it was in 1994.&rdquo;Muhlope highlighted some of the projects that are currently unfolding. &ldquo;These&nbsp;include the upgrading of the Tshipise-Matatani road, construction of 600 RDP houses, extension of municipal offices, road construction in Nancefield, storm-water channel construction and upgrading of Skoonplaas Stadium.&rdquo;She announced some of the projects that the municipality will implement during the new financial year that starts on 1 July. &ldquo;These&nbsp;include (but are not limited to) the construction of a sports centre in Muswodi,&nbsp; construction of 2.8km of paved roads in Nancefield, maintenance of internal gravel streets in all wards, upgrading of electricity, installation of feeder lines and replacement of 8,5km from copper to aluminium in our power lines, &nbsp;extension of electricity supply in Tshikuyu, Tshidzi, Gwakwani, Manezhe, Rangani Lathudwa and Bennde Mutale, installation of high-mast light and street lights in municipal buildings, electrical reticulation for new settlements in Nancefield Ext 6, 7 and 14, to name but a few.&rdquo;Email: More photos... Mayor Mihloti Muhlope, photographed with traditional leaders shortly after her budget speech. The traditional leaders are, from left to right,&nbsp;Thovhele Elon Manezhe, Headman Solomon Nduvheni, Thovhele Hanyani Tshikundamalema, Thovhele Vuzidzhena Nethengwe and Thovhele William Mutele.Mayor Mihloti Muhlope (fifth from left) together with invited guests during her budget speech at Madimbo Community Hall.