Members of the Vhembe Biosphere Reserve, Soutpansberg Chamber of Commerce and Working on Fire, collaborating to bring people and nature together in the Louis Trichardt Bird and Tree Sanctuary. Photo supplied.Date: 15 June 2017 By: Andries van ZylViewed: 143Nestled in the foothills of the Soutpansberg, the Louis Trichardt Tree and Bird Sanctuary form an important green belt along a water course&nbsp;through the town.The tree sanctuary hosts a botanical display of nearly 80 indigenous trees, many of which were planted by the town&rsquo;s horticulturalists and community members in years gone by. However, the park has largely been inaccessible to the community because of &nbsp;invasive alien plants (IAPs), as well as bush encroachment. This has led to the bush becoming a refuge for criminals, and the site being a hotspot for crime.The Soutpansberg Chamber of Commerce, Limpopo Dairies, the Vhembe Biosphere Reserve (VBR) and the University of Venda&rsquo;s SARCHI Chair on Biodiversity Value and Change in the VBR are at present collaborating with the Makhado Municipality, as well as the Extended Public Works Programme (EPWP) and Working on Fire and Working for Water, to clean up the park and create a safe haven and recreational space for the community. The vision of this group is for the community to be able get involved in local activities such as tree walks, nature talks and, of course, enjoying a picnic under the spectacular trees, thus creating a space that brings people and nature together&nbsp;in the heart of Louis Trichardt. The group will also be starting a weekly Saturday 5km park run in September this year.A lot of work still needs to be done, however, and for this the project is looking for assistance. &ldquo;Whether you are willing and able to volunteer over a weekend to help clear IAPs, volunteer at the park run or would like your business to sponsor eye-catching and informative signage or&nbsp;maintenance and transport costs of the teams coming in to do the work, we would like to hear from you!&rdquo; say&nbsp;the project organisers. People who can help are urged to send an email to Jaco Voigt at jaco@limpopodairy.co.za, Cath Vise at cath@vhembebiosphere.org or Jamy Jonker at admin@soutpansbergchamber.co.za. Alternatively, visit the VBR&rsquo;s website at www.vhembebiosphere.org.Andries joined the Zoutpansberger&nbsp;and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.Email: andries@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... 