The Nr 2 Folding Pocket Kodak dating back to 1899 was one of the first commercial &quot;folders&quot; to be made.&nbsp;The early models are distinctive, with the front covered in leather concealing the built-in lens and shutter. It took 12 exposures on&nbsp;No. 101 roll film, which is unfortunately no longer available.Date: 31 August 2017 By: Anton van ZylViewed: 25The next challenge in the Zoutpansberger&rsquo;s vintage photography project&nbsp;is to take photos with &ldquo;folders&rdquo; (or the cameras with bellows).The &ldquo;folding cameras&rdquo; date back to the 1880s, when it became necessary to manufacture smaller, more portable cameras. Up to that stage the cameras were bulky wooden contraptions, often making use of plates to capture the images. Inventors such as George Eastman developed photographic film, which made the process much easier and the cameras could become much smaller.The folding mechanisms not only allowed the cameras to be packed in smaller boxes, but they&nbsp;also allowed the lens to be moved forwards and backwards. This allowed more precise control over focussing and it gave the photographers more control over the depth of field.The next photo excursion is planned for Saturday, 9 September. The exact venue will be announced closer to the time, but the enthusiasts will first gather at the Zoutpansberger&rsquo;s office at 16B Joubert Street.All photography enthusiasts, whether experienced or not, are welcome to attend the session. Those with folding cameras are welcome to bring them along. The only kinds of film available are 120mm and 35mm format, which unfortunately excludes the earlier models and cameras using Kodak&rsquo;s 620 film.The Zoutpansberger&rsquo;s camera museum also has about a dozen folding cameras that are available for use by enthusiasts. Readers interested in taking part in the project can visit the offices during office hours and have a look at the camera collection (and choose a camera).On the 9th the excursion will start with practical sessions on each of the cameras. Because the cameras are so different, each photographer will be guided on how to use his or her camera. Concepts such as exposure and focus will be quickly explained and how to set shutter speed and aperture on each of the cameras.The group will then go out on location to take photos. Ideally, these photos will be eligible for use in the annual calendar competition. This year&rsquo;s calendar will once again have a heritage theme, with only photos taken with cameras 50 years and older being eligible.For more information Anton, Andries or Isabel can be contacted at (015) 516 4996/7.Anton van Zyl has been with the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror for over 27&nbsp;years. He graduated at the the Rand Afrikaans University (now University of Johannesburg) and obtained a BA Communications degree. He is a founder member of the Association of Independent Publishers.Email: anton@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... 