Date: 24 August 2017 By: Kaizer NengovhelaViewed: 860A family from Tshikota is upset with a local dog owner and they claim that the animal caused the death of the 64-year-old Mr Gada Mthombothi. He died on Sunday, not long after being bitten on the leg by the dog.The incident was confirmed this week by the spokesperson for the police in the Makhado area, Const Irene Radzilane. She said that an incident was reported where an elderly man had been bitten on the lower leg by a dog in one of Tshikota&rsquo;s streets. Radzilane said the man died before the ambulance arrived. An inquest docket was opened and investigations are continuing.The family of Mr Mothombothi said this week that they intended taking action against the owner of the dog. &ldquo;Obviously, no amount of money is ever going to make up for what had happened,&rdquo; a family member, Ms Rose Mathekgane, said. &ldquo;The family is very upset.&rdquo; She said that when she approached the owner of the dog, the man insulted her and the other children. Mathekgane said that the owner denied that his dog had bitten her uncle. The matter was reported and, according to Mathekgane, the police and the local SCPA removed the dog.The family of the deceased claim that dog owner was aware that his dog had a history of biting people, but still let him roam the streets without a leash.Ms Mathekgane said that her uncle had severe pain in his leg after the attack and an ambulance was called. When the ambulance arrived, her uncle was already dead.The MEC for&nbsp;Health, Dr Phophi Ramathuba, also warned about animals&#39; being allowed to roam the streets. This is especially dangerous in areas where rabies have&nbsp;been reported. She said that the main control mechanism for rabies was vaccination. &ldquo;There are those who are reluctant to vaccinate their dogs, believing that their dogs will no longer be active hunters. A dog with rabies may show a variety of behavioural changes, including fearfulness, aggression, and excessive difficulty in swallowing, irritability and staggering. A dog is known as man&rsquo;s best friend, but once it is infected with rabies, it loses respect and fear for humans by biting even with no provocation, while wild animals may act timidly and move closer to residential areas,&rdquo; she said.Ramathuba advised those who have been bitten by animals to act quickly. &ldquo;If bitten or scratched by an animal, you should quickly wash the wounds well with clean water, using soap, for at least ten minutes and then seek medical attention immediately from the nearest clinic or hospital. Death is inevitable when the&nbsp;clinical signs of rabies become apparent,&rdquo; she said.Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province&#39;s premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.zaMore photos... Mr Gada Mthombothi (65).