Chippas&#39; centre back, Matshenyego Mamaila.Date: 18 August 2017 By: Frank MavhunguViewed: 111Another busy weekend lies ahead for the teams affiliated to the Limpopo Stream of the Sasol Women&rsquo;s League. Eight matches will be played at various venues throughout the province.One of the league title chasers, Shayandima Morning Stars, are gearing up for their home match against Real Mighty Girls at the Guvhukuvhu grounds on Sunday. Stars are currently in the third position with 13 points accumulated from the 7 matches they had played to date. With one match in hand, Stars are 11 points behind the pace setters, Maindis FC.Tshandama Young Stars will play in front of their home crowd. They will host Sisters Ladies at the Tshandama grounds. Things are not going according to plan in the camp of Young Stars. They have managed to win only one of the seven matches they have&nbsp;played so far.The log leaders, Maindis FC, will travel to the Malamulele Stadium where they will play against the newly promoted side, Team Herman FC. Team Herman are languishing at the bottom of the log. They are still to deposit a point into their league account.Chippas United will host Mountain Tigers at the Makhuvha Stadium. The Tigers&rsquo; strikers will have a tough time against the Chippas defenders, Olga Netshidzivhe, Matshenyego Mamaila and Tshamano Mudau.Botlokwa Ladies and Seven Stars will meet at the Sefene High School grounds. Both Seven Stars and Botlokwa stand an outside chance of winning the league title.The University of Limpopo will undertake a journey to Dipitsi village, where they will lock horns with Re Tla Dira Ladies at the Dipitsi grounds. Modimolle Ladies will entertain Kanatla Ladies at the Nylstroom Ho&euml;rskool grounds. The match between Mphanama Ladies and Moria Sweepers will be played at the Mphanama grounds on Sunday. Frank is a Human Resources Manager at the Department of Public Works in Limpopo. He is the longest serving correspondent of the Mirror, having joined us at the end of 1990.&nbsp; He mainly writes sports reports and resides at Tsianda Village. In 2004, Frank won the National Castle League Award, an award for the best reporter in the SAB league in South Africa.Email: More photos... Olga Netshidzivhe of Chippas United Ladies.Chippas&#39; central defender, Tshamano Mudau.