Regarding the construction of the new southbound overpass at the R37 interchange (to Tzaneen), traffic will be diverted from the existing N1 onto the newly constructed eastern ramps of the future interchange. Schematic supplied.Date: 03 August 2017 By: Andries van ZylViewed: 851The South African National Roads Agency Ltd (SANRAL) has warned road users of road closures on the N1 eastern ring around Polokwane, due to the construction of a new over- and underpass bridge that will commence shortly.&ldquo;Temporary deviations of the N1 have been built to allow construction of the bridges to proceed,&rdquo; said SANRAL in a press release last week. The deviations will be implemented between 1 to 11 August and are expected to be in place for 10 to 12 months.A short deviation of the N1 has been built near the Shell Ultra City (N1 south) to allow construction of the hotel bridge to proceed. Traffic will be reduced from two lanes per direction to one lane per direction. &ldquo;The north-south bi-directional flow will be separated by traffic delineators and motorists should proceed with care,&rdquo; said SANRAL.&nbsp;Regarding the construction of the new southbound overpass at the R37 interchange (to Tzaneen), traffic will be diverted from the existing N1 onto the newly constructed eastern ramps of the future interchange. Once the traffic has been diverted, this will allow construction of the new N1 southbound bridge over the R37 to proceed. Traffic will continue north and south as normal through the deviation.SANRAL apologises for any inconvenience caused and thanks motorists for their patience and cooperation during the construction period. &ldquo;The agency takes seriously its mandate from government to manage and maintain the national road network. In so doing, the safety and wellbeing of road users and the communities in which it operates are paramount,&rdquo; said SANRAL.Andries joined the Zoutpansberger&nbsp;and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.Email: andries@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... A short deviation of the N1 has been built near the Shell Ultra City (N1 south) to allow construction of the hotel bridge to proceed. Traffic will be reduced from two lanes per direction to one lane per direction. Schematic supplied.