International music icon&nbsp;Oliver Mtukudzi is one of the big names that will perform at the Musina annual show next week.Date: 14 August 2017 By: Viewed: 182The communications manager of Musina Municipality, Mr Wilson Dzebu, says&nbsp;the 2017 annual show will boost the border town&rsquo;s vision of becoming the gateway city to the rest of Africa.The show takes place from next week Thursday to Saturday (17 to 19 August) at the Musina show grounds.With thousands of visitors and fun lovers expected, Dzebu says&nbsp;local entrepreneurs and community members stand to benefit as lots of trade activities will be taking place. &ldquo;We expect our town to boom with business as we have received thousands of confirmations of people who are coming. We have organized the annual show for more than 20 years and we have no doubt that this year&rsquo;s event will also keep the standard.&rdquo;He says the activities include a street carnival that will take place along the N1 road on Thursday the 17th. &ldquo;Thereafter, we will march to the show grounds where Mayor Mihloti Muhlope will officially open the show. We will then move around the stalls where the mayor and her entourage will greet exhibitors and welcome them to the 2017 edition of the show.&rdquo;Dzebu says other activities include a demonstration by the dog unit of the SAPS, traditional dances, musangwe, merry-go-rounds, a demonstration by the South African National Defence Force, theatre, wrestling, poetry and career guidance for students. &nbsp;&ldquo;We have also invited the Presidential Cartel to demonstrate to our people that success is possible despite people&#39;s coming from disadvantaged backgrounds. The Cartel is an umbrella that covers a variety of businesses started by young entrepreneurs dedicated to building a society where people carry themselves in a presidential way and have presidential-type services to meet their daily needs.&rdquo;Dzebu adds&nbsp;that the annual show will host music festivals on Friday and Saturday. &quot;Artists featured at&nbsp;Friday&rsquo;s music festival include international icon Oliver Mtukudzi, Colbert Mukwevho, Lebo Sekgobela, Lwei Netshivhale, DJ Phistos, Mercy Masakona Madzivhandila, Juba and DJ Lee Roy. The music extravaganza will continue on&nbsp;Saturday, when&nbsp;the programme will feature the following artists: Sands, Rabs Vhafuwi, DJ Complexion, DJ Ngilz, Lufuno Dagada, Selaelo Selota, DJ Salim Sgo, King Monada, Makhadzi, Zozo, Mutendas, Zwido, Vhembe Heritage and DJ Arch Jnr.&quot; &nbsp;Gates will open at 08:00 on all the three days. The entrance fee is R50 for adults and R30 for children. The disabled and the elderly will receive free entrance.Email: More photos... 