Date: 02 March 2017 By: Andries van ZylViewed: 106The High Court in Polokwane&nbsp;dismissed a review case brought by KPMM against the Roads Agency Limpopo (RAL) on Friday, 24 February.In 2015, RAL awarded a tender to 4-Arrows Ruwacon Construction JV for the construction of&nbsp;the P277/1 road from Makuya to Masisi, as well as the P135/1 road from the N1 between Musina and Pafuri. KPMM had submitted a bid for this contract;&nbsp;however, its bid was disqualified for non-compliance with the mandatory conditions of the tender. It had failed to supply tax-clearance certificates of its intended subcontractors. Dissatisfied with RAL&rsquo;s decision, KPMM then turned to the court to set aside the awarding of the tender, arguing that the tender should have been&nbsp;awarded to it instead.KPMM argued in court that, instead of disqualifying its bid, RAL should have invited it to submit the required tax-clearance certificates of its&nbsp;subcontractors. It further argued that, unlike the successful bidder, it was an experienced company and had&nbsp;won tenders around the country without submitting its subcontractors&rsquo; tax-clearance certificates.The High Court found in favour of RAL and dismissed KPMM&rsquo;s application with costs.Following the court judgement, RAL issued a press release wherein they welcomed the decision. &ldquo;This decision&nbsp;has implications that are much broader and wider than victory of one party over another in a small court duel.&nbsp;The case was a litmus test&nbsp;for RAL&rsquo;s implementation of a constitutionally sound supply-chain&nbsp;process. In my view, the court has vindicated RAL&rsquo;s procurement processes and endorsed the manner in which these are implemented,&rdquo; commented the RAL&rsquo;s attorney, Mr Amos Vilakazi.RAL CEO Mr Maselaganye Matji also commented, stating that RAL was committed to clean business practices. &ldquo;We will not, as KPMM wanted us to do, give any particular bidder an unfair advantage over other bidders. Potential bidders must not expect that RAL will help them by&nbsp;reminding them of tender requirements. Doing so would be irregular, illegal and unfair, and that will not happen on my watch,&rdquo; said Matji. He added that the court judgment would allow RAL to focus on completing the project and delivering the much-needed road infrastructure to the people of Limpopo.Andries joined the Zoutpansberger&nbsp;and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.Email: andries@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... 