A group of parolees were once again spotted on Monday whilst they were clearing the sidewalk in Stubbs Street, Louis Trichardt, on Monday. The initiative forms part of an ongoing project to not only clear the town&rsquo;s indigenous tree sanctuary of alien plants, but also to clean up the town&rsquo;s streets in general. Pictured are representatives of several Community Correctional Centres in the district. In front from left to right are Ellen Hlungwane, Thatheni Mulaudzi, Thinus Steyn and Attie van Deventer (supervisor). At the back are Justice Maluleka, Dion Masungu, Godfrey Mahlagoro, Sydney Ntsanwisi, Benny Jordaan, Jaco Voigt (Soutpansberg Chamber of Commerce) and Reckson Mulaudzi of the Makhado Municipality.Date: 08 September 2017 By: Andries van ZylViewed: 405Since the weekend, residents might have seen teams of men busy clearing the bushes along Stubbs Street in Louis Trichardt.These men are all parolees scheduled for release soon. They form part of the Makhado-, Tshilwavhusiku-, Dzanani-, Waterval-, Musina-, Botlokwa- and Tiyani Community Correctional Centre&rsquo;s social re-integration programme. The programme also forms part of the Soutpansberg Chamber of Commerce&rsquo;s ongoing clean-up campaign in town and in Louis Trichardt&#39;s green belt area along the N1. The campaign is a collaboration between the chamber, the Vhembe Biosphere Reserve (VBR), Limpopo Dairy, and the University of Venda&rsquo;s SARCHI Chair on Biodiversity Value and Change in the VBR are at present collaborating with the Makhado Municipality, as well as the extended public works programme and&nbsp;Working on Fire and Working for Water, to clean up the bird and tree sanctuaries to create a haven and recreational space for the community. The above-mentioned correctional centres bought into the idea and are supporting the initiative.A lot of help is, however, still needed. People who can help are urged to send an email to Jaco Voigt (chairman of the Soutpansberg Chamber of Commerce) at jaco@limpopodairy.co.za, Cath Vise from the Vhembe Biosphere at cath@vhembebiosphere.org or Jamy Jonker (chamber secretary) at admin@soutpansbergchamber.co.za. Alternatively, visit the VBR&rsquo;s website at www.vhembebiosphere.org or phone Dirk Meissenheimer at Tel 082&nbsp;789 3927.Andries joined the Zoutpansberger&nbsp;and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.Email: andries@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... Jaco Voigt is pictured here next to the cycle and pedestrian walkway in Stubbs Street that was cleared of bushes and rubble the past weekend by a group of parolees.