Authors Louis Changuion, Bev and Charles Leach in collaboration.Date: 06 April 2017 By: Anton van ZylViewed: 11A book depicting the life of the 11th Duke of Atholl was launched in Haenertsburg a few weeks ago. The local launch will take place at Lalapanzi later this month. The story, however, has a distinct Soutpansberg character as many of the people involved, including the current Duke of Atholl, stays in the region.The book titled &ldquo;The Duke from Haenertsburg&rdquo; is a biography of the life of the 11th Duke of Atholl, the late John Murray. It is written in two parts. The first part covers in brief the history of the Atholl Dukedom and the first 10 Dukes of Atholl. The second part focuses on John Murray, a young South Afican boy growing up on The Downs in Haenertsburg, the man who became a Scottish duke!John&rsquo;s early ties to Louis Trichardt were through his grandfather, William Eastwood, who farmed at Buffelspoort near Mara. When John had completed his Bachelor of Science Engineering he took up residence in Louis Trichardt, opening a Land Surveying practice with Sam Cawood in Krogh Street which lasted for ten years. He was one of the original Land Surveyors on the Kariba Dam Project.He married Peggy Leach, daughter of another long standing Louis Trichardt resident, Ronald Leonard Leach and his wife Faith (nee Kleinenberg). In the 1950s John was actively involved in the community life of Louis Trichardt. He was a founder member of Round Table Club 66 and was involved in the establishment of the Soutpansberg Boat Club. They have three children, Jennifer, Bruce and Craig who all spent their early days in Louis Trichardt.In 1988 he retired to Haenertsburg, close to where he had spent so many wonderful years in his youth. John&rsquo;s eldest son, Bruce Murray (the then Marquis of Tullibardine) succeeded his father as the 12th Duke of Atholl when John passed away in 2012. Bruce lives in Louis Trichardt and runs his own business, The Stamp and Sign Shop.The book was authored by Professor Louis Changuion &ndash; a well-known historian and author who has no less than 23 books to his credit. Louis was also a personal friend of John Murray and resident of Haenertsberg where together they spent many hours rambling the Iron Crown Mountain Range.Bev and Charles Leach co-authored the book. Charles, our own local historian, tour-guide and author is brother to the Dowager Duchess Peggy Murray. As family of the late duke, Bev and Charles were able to highlight the gentle, generous and nature loving side of John Murray.The layout and design elements of the book were produced by local graphic designer Laura van Zyl who has to date worked on nine books, six of them comprising local content. The final product was printed and bound in Louis Trichardt by Leach Printers and Signs.The Louis Trichardt launch of this auspicious book will take place at the Lalapanzi Hotel on Saturday 22 April. To add to the occasion, car enthusiasts are invited to come at 4pm to view local, as well as vintage cars from the Limpopo Classic Car Club. The book launch formalities will commence at 5pm and everyone is welcome. His Grace, the 12th Duke of Atholl, Bruce Murray, The Dowager Duchess and the authors Louis Changuion, Charles and Bev Leach will be in attendance and available to sign all copies purchased on the day.For catering purposes, the organisers have requested that you please book in advance. Those wishing to view the cars and attend the launch (no fee) can indicate their intentions to Bev Leach on 082 928 7128 / bev@leachprinters.co.za.Lalapanzi Hotel has offered a special on accommodation for Saturday night at R150 per person &ndash; breakfast not included. Supper (after the launch) at R120 per person will be served. Bookings in advance are essential so please contact Lalapanzi&rsquo;s reception on 015 516 5455 to make your bookings.Anton van Zyl has been with the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror for over 25&nbsp;years. He graduated at the the Rand Afrikaans University (now University of Johannesburg) and obtained a BA Communications degree. He is a founder member of the Association of Independent Publishers.Email: anton@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... A photo taken when the 11th Duke of Atholl was still living. From left stand Martin and Lady Jennifer Glodek, Lord Craig and Inge Murray, the 11th Duke and Duchess of Atholl and Bruce Murray, (then) Marquis of Tullibardine.The book cover.