Mayor Mihloti Muhlope and acting municipal manager Mr &nbsp;Nathi Tshiwanammbi proudly display the Unqualified Audit Report Award.&nbsp;&nbsp;Date: 10 April 2017 By: Wilson DzebuViewed: 507The mayor of Musina Municipality, Cllr Mihloti Muhlope, thanked her councillors, municipal administrators, community stakeholders and the public for contributing towards the improvement of the financial management of the municipality.Muhlope said this after the municipality was presented with a special award for improved audit outcomes for the 2015/2016 financial year. The municipality received an unqualified audit opinion from the auditor general. This was announced during the occasion of the 2017 South African Local Government Association (SALGA) Limpopo Finance Week which was recently held at Tzeneen.An unqualified audit opinion is when the auditor general concludes that financial records and statements are fairly and appropriately presented, and in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles.Muhlope added that the award was something that the municipality should feel proud of. She said that this had&nbsp;been hailed as a positive move since some improvements in the running of the municipality for the past years have been taking place.Muhlope said the award would&nbsp;go a long way in motivating councillors, administrators and all stakeholders to work towards the common goal of attaining a clean audit report. &ldquo;One of the strategic objectives of the Local Government Turnaround Strategy is to build clean, effective, efficient, responsive and accountable local government. Our next step is to make sure that all our reports, including finances, are free of any misrepresentations. The first basic area of improvement will be the ability to produce reliable monthly financial and management information, which is essential for the monitoring of service delivery activities. We will continue to make sure that our financial records are maintained in accordance with the regulations.&rdquo;Muhlope&rsquo;s sentiments were echoed by the acting municipal manager, Mr Nathi Tshiwanammbi, who said that the municipality had&nbsp;been declared a provincial growth point and measures to implement a special economic zone were already in place. &ldquo;We are also preparing to become a city and all these need men and women who are experts in managing the purse of the municipality. This will really motivate us to work towards achieving these goals.&rdquo;Email: More photos... 