Rescue workers busy clearing the scene of Sunday&rsquo;s fatal bus accident on the N1 north which claimed the lives of four people. Photo supplied.Date: 28 April 2017 By: Isabel VenterViewed: 800The past weekend was sadly not as quiet on the roads for local rescue workers as the Easter. Six people passed away in four separate accidents, all on Sunday.The first accident, involving a bus travelling from Zambia, claimed the lives of a young child and four adults. Some of them have been identified&nbsp;by the Lusaka Times newspaper, as Memory Kainga and her daughter Taonga Mwale. Angel Kunda, the host of the bus, also passed away, while the fourth passenger, a Congolese national, has yet to be identified. Another five passengers in the bus sustained critical injuries and were transported to the Louis Trichardt Memorial Hospital for treatment.The accident occurred close to the Ingwe Hotel at approximately 13:00. Another newspaper, the Zambia Daily Mail, reported that the bus was travelling from Johannesburg to Lusaka when it flipped as the driver tried to avoid an object ahead of him. They further reported that Zambia&rsquo;s High Commissioner to South Africa have launched an investigation to determine the cause of the accident after receiving complaints that the bus was not roadworthy.The road had to be closed for traffic, during which time another accident happened. A freight truck that could not brake in time crashed into the mountain side. The driver, who was alone in the truck, escaped unhurt.A few hours after this accident, another truck was involved in an accident, also on the N1 north, close to the Mountain View Hotel. According to rescue workers, the driver of the truck was travelling in a southerly direction, when he lost control over his truck. The accident occurred at around 18:00. The impact of the collision was so severe that the man went flying through the windshield and was killed instantly.One passenger was also killed in a car accident near Mbhokota.In all the incidents, the Makhado Police have opened cases of culpable homicide for further investigations.Isabel joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in 2009 as a reporter. She holds a BA Degree in Communication Sciences from the University of South Africa. Her beat is mainly crime and court reporting.Email: isabel@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... Rescue workers busy clearing the road where the bus accident occurred on Sunday afternoon. Photo supplied.A few hours after the above accident, this truck was involved in an accident, also on the N1 north. &nbsp;Tragically the driver dead instantly when he was flung through the windshield during the accident. Photo supplied.