The taxi and bus rank at Thohoyandou was operating normally on Wednesday morning.Date: 12 April 2017 By: Prudence BopapeViewed: 259Several reports were received on Wednesday of workers in the Vhembe district unable to go to work because of the nationwide bus strike. It does seem, however, that the strike did not have a dramatic impact on commuters in the northern parts of the country. It was mainly commuters using Great North Transport, that were left stranded.According to the marketing and business manager of Great North Transport, Mr Patrick Monkoe, their buses were not operating on Wednesday. He expressed the hope that everything will continue as usual the following day. &ldquo;We apologise to all our customers and hope the situation will&nbsp;be resolved&nbsp;sooner rather than later,&rdquo; he said. He added that they are at present locked in discussions with the South African Transport and Allied Workers Union and other unions to help minimize the effect of the strike. They are also negotiating with the drivers individually.Ms Tintswalo Rikhotso, who travels from Basani near Bungeni to Louis Trichardt, said that she was unable to go to work on Wednesday, as the bus that she normally catches around 6:00 did not show up.A visit to the Thohoyandou bus rank, the main rank in Thohoyandou, showed that all companies were operating and drivers reported for duty. The drivers transported their passengers as usual and went to&nbsp;the&nbsp;Sasol garage in Thohoyandou where they held a meeting with the employers. Commuters say they fear that if the talks do not go well they might have to seek alternative transport when they knock off from work.In Mamvuka village, Mulaudzi Bus Services were operating in the morning.&nbsp; Commuters weren&rsquo;t sure if the buses will pick up them later in the day. Most of them were delighted to see the buses in the morning. According to reports, buses were fully operating in the Kutama and Sinthumule areas.The 22-year-old Prudence Bopape from Ha-Masia village joined the Zoutnet newsroom as an intern on the 1st of February 2017.&nbsp;Prudence completed her Bachelor of Arts degree, specialising in communications, at the Northwest University. She is an avid reader and believes that a good reader makes an excellent writer. &quot;I believe that determination is the is the key to excellence,&rdquo; she says.&nbsp;Email: More photos... 