Some of the suspected stolen property recovered during the operation during which four alleged house robbers were arrested by the Makhado Police. Photo: Limpopo Police Communications.Date: 13 January 2017 By: Isabel VenterViewed: 1787Louis Trichardt residents can sleep a little easier following a successful police operation in which four suspected house robbers were arrested last night (12 January).The tactical intelligence led operation was comprised of the Makhado K9 Dog Unit, a Crime Prevention Task Team and several local police detectives who set out smoke out criminals from Louis Trichardt and Tshikota. &nbsp;According to a provincial police spokesperson, &nbsp;Brig Moatshe Ngoepe, the team was following up on information about a group of youths that were allegedly terrorizing the community and coming a spate of burglaries. The four suspects, between the ages of 17 and 27, will appear in&nbsp;court soon. Police believe that the four might be part of crime syndicate, specifically targeting houses to break into.&nbsp;During the arrest the police also confiscated a various tool sets, a Toshiba laptop, five cellphones and a grey jacket. The goods are valued at about R20&nbsp;000.&ldquo;The suspects will be linked to other cases of house breaking that were committed in and around Louis Trichardt. Additional charges of possession of suspected stolen proper will be registered,&rdquo; said Ngoepe on Friday morning.&nbsp;Isabel joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in 2009 as a reporter. She holds a BA Degree in Communication Sciences from the University of South Africa. Her beat is mainly crime and court reporting.Email: isabel@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... Some of the suspected stolen property recovered during the operation during which four alleged house robbers were arrested by the Makhado Police. Photo: Limpopo Police Communications.A Thosiba laptop was among the suspected stolen goods that were confiscated by the police during yesterday&#39;s tactical led operation.&nbsp;Photo: Limpopo Police Communications.