In the AS Cambridge exam, the top three performing students were (from left to right) Ismaeel Ayob (six distinctions), Laaiqah Ghood (five distinctions) and Mpho Netshifhefhe (four distinctions). Photos supplied.Date: 21 January 2017 By: Andries van ZylViewed: 1922Ridgeway College in Louis Trichardt has yet again produced a fantastic set of results for the 2016 examinations, recording a 100% pass rate in both the IEB and Cambridge exams.In the AS Cambridge examinations, there was 100% pass rate with 94% bachelor degree passes.&nbsp; The top students were Ismaeel Ayob (six distinctions), Laaiqah Ghood (five distinctions), Mpho Netshifhefhe (four distinctions), Mikaeel Cassim (three distinctions), Kaashif Goolam (three distinctions) and Saddik Patel (three distinctions).For the IEB curriculum, the college recorded a 100% pass rate, of which 80% were bachelor degree passes.&nbsp; The top performing IEB students were Livingstone Mudau, Nhleko Baloyi and Collen Magidi.Some of the Ridgeway students have already received acceptance into universities of their choice, with merit scholarship awards. They include Romeo Nemaangani (100% medical school&nbsp;at Stellenbosch University), Khanyisile Tshotwana (100% medical school&nbsp;at Stellenbosch University), Mpho Netshifhefhe (who has been awarded the prestigious Alan Gray Scholarship and has been admitted to University of Pretoria for biomedical engineering) and Ismaael Ayob (who has been awarded the prestigious Investec Scholarship and has been offered a place at UJ to study accounting sciences).Of the Grade 10 Ridgeway students who wrote the Cambridge IGCSE exam, the top performing students were Sina Davachi (six A* - 90% and above), Rotondwa Ramabulana (three A&rsquo;s and one A*) and Ashley Fourie (three A&rsquo;s and one A*).Andries joined the Zoutpansberger&nbsp;and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.Email: andries@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... For the IEB curriculum, the top performing student was Livingstone Mudau. Photo supplied.Of the Grade 10 Ridgeway students who wrote the Cambridge IGCSE exam, the top performing student was Sina Davachi (six A* - 90% and above). Photo supplied.