The &nbsp;9mm pistol that was found inside the Nissan Tiida of the suspect and confiscated by the Makhado Police as part of their investigation. Photo: Limpopo Police Communications.Date: 31 January 2017 By: Mbulaheni RidovhonaViewed: 1137The first appearance of the man&nbsp;accused of shooting a police constable of the Makhado SAPS&nbsp;is expected to be heard in the Louis Trichardt District Court today.In all probability, the 27-year-old man will not appear in court himself as he is still receiving medical treatment. According to the police, it is suspected that the suspect sustained injuries when the vehicle he was driving crashed during the police&rsquo;s pursuit. &ldquo;The suspect shot and injured the member before crashing the stolen vehicle he was driving. It is believed [he] was picked up by a certain Ford Ranger,&rdquo; said provincial police spokesperson Brig Motlafela Mojapelo.The man will be charged with attempted murder that relates to the shooting incident in which an off-duty constable from the Makhado Police Station was seriously injured. The incident happened during the early hours of Saturday morning.On Sunday, the police received information about the suspect, who had been&nbsp;admitted to hospital. On arrival, the police immediately placed the man under&nbsp;arrest.According to &nbsp;Mojapelo, the suspect&nbsp;had allegedly skipped a red traffic light&nbsp;on Saturday.&nbsp;The police constable, who was not on duty at the time, pursued him in his private vehicle. &quot;A constable, aged 34, was driving along Krogh Street in Louis Trichardt with a companion when a white Tiida with registration DHN 204L skipped a red traffic light,&quot; he said.It is further alleged that the suspect then stopped and opened fire on the police member and fled from the scene. Mojapelo confirmed that the Tiida had recently been reported stolen from the Westenburg policing area in Polokwane. &ldquo;The vehicle was searched and a 9mm pistol with serial numbers filed off and one live round of ammunition were found,&rdquo; Mojapelo added.Mojapelo further confirmed that the suspect is linked to a number of serious crimes that he had allegedly committed across the Limpopo Province.The constable is currently recovering in hospital. He is expected to undergo surgery later in the week to remove a bullet that is still lodged in his arm. Other than that, Mojapelo confirmed on Monday that he is expected to make a full recovery.&ldquo;We are proud of our member. He acted like a hero and went beyond the call of duty,&rdquo; said Mojapelo.Read more hereThe 22-year-old Mbulaheni (Gary) Ridovhona has been passionate about journalism to the extent that he would buy himself a copy of weekly Univen students&#39; newsletter, Our Voice. After reading, he would write stories about his rural village, Mamvuka, and submit them to the very newsletter for publication. His deep-rooted love for words and writing saw him register for a Bachelor of Arts in Media Studies at the University of Venda, and joined the Limpopo Mirror team in February 2016 as a journalism intern.Email: More photos... According to the police, the vehicle the suspect was driving had recently been reported stolen from the Westenburg policing area.&nbsp;Photo: Limpopo Police Communications.