Musina Municipality has joined hands with the rest of the world in the war against HIV and Aids. This was displayed by the huge turn-up during the World Aids Day build-up event that was held at the Beitbridge Border Post last week. During the event, hundreds of local community members and cross-border travellers participated in health checks for various diseases. Condoms were also distributed to truck drivers, hawkers, taxi drivers and travellers. Cllr Carlton Netshivhulana from Musina Municipality said that the event was aimed at encouraging local community members and travellers to live a healthy life while at the same time being faithful to their lovers. Netshivhulana said the reason why the Beitbridge Border Post was targeted is because there are thousands of travellers who pass through the port of entry on a daily basis. He said the campaign re-affirms the commitment of Musina Municipality to scale-up and intensify the multi-sectoral response to HIV and TB. “That is why we decided to put everything aside to come and make contributions to this important initiative. In order to combat HIV and TB, a collective and multi-prolonged effort is required from all of us.” He added that it is good, because during the campaign, they are teaching community members how to use condoms correctly, because a condom prevents the transmission of various sexual diseases. “We are also encouraging people to know their HIV status by testing every three months. People must know the signs and symptoms of various diseases and seek medical help as soon as the first symptoms appear.” He added that it is up to everyone, collectively and as individuals, to take responsibility for their own health and that of others. “As a nation, we must rise to this challenge, determined and committed and confident that we can succeed. We must combat the stigma associated with HIV and create an environment in which all can feel comfortable to be tested and be treated.” Mr Joseph Moyo, a long-distance driver who was travelling from Gauteng to Harare through the Beitbridge Border Post, said that the initiative is very good, because they don’t get time to do health checks or go into the shops to buy condoms, as they spend most of their time on the road. “Many lives will be saved through this move,” he said.