After 28 years of service to Emmanuel Christian School (ECS), the principal, Ms Sandy James, is retiring at the end of 2017.  Sandy has been the principal of the school since 1997. In 1989, during the first year of the school’s existence, she was asked to assist the students with Mathematics and Physical Sciences on a voluntary basis. The following year (1990), she accepted a permanent teaching post and has been with ECS ever since, teaching a wide variety of subjects over the years including Mathematics, Physical Sciences, Biology, French and English. The School Governing Body mentioned that, while they are sad to see Sandy leave, they are thankful that she will still be involved in the school in various ways and she will serve as an honorary School Governing Body member. Sandy has indicated that she is looking forward to being able to assist her husband, Chris, with some new ventures in which the family has recently become involved. Chris has always been very supportive of her role in Christian education and was also involved in the building projects and planning of Emmanuel Christian School. The School Governing Body expressed their thanks to the James family for their valuable input. One of the school’s staff members, Mrs Muralda van der Nest, will fill the role of Acting Principal as of January 2018, assisted by the existing school management team. On behalf of the school community, the School Governing Body expressed deep gratitude for Sandy’s commitment and dedication to the school’s vision and mission over the years.  Sandy says that she feels blessed and privileged to have been involved in Christian education as part of the team at Emmanuel Christian School over all these years and that the journey has been inspirational and exciting all the way. No journey is without its challenges – the educational road was not always “tarred” but, she quotes the scripture, “He … set my feet upon a rock, and established my steps.” (Psalm 40:2).  Sandy says that she looks forward to visiting the school from time to time in the future and is confident that the school will continue to provide quality Christian education, pursue the legacy of a 100% matric pass rate and produce quality graduates who make a difference in the country.