Jacques Mouton is already a well-known name in Louis Trichardt, but this young musician is determined to introduce his unique brand of singing and song-writing to a wider audience. The past year was full of highlights, but if he has his way next year will be even busier. The Zoutpansberger caught up with the 24-year-old Jacques while he was still relaxing on a farm just outside town earlier this week. He told us more about his plans for December, as well as the two albums he has in mind for next year. Jacques and a friend who plays guitar, plan on hitting the Western Cape’s roads late in December. Jacques calls it their “backpacker” tour and the idea is to visit the small towns in the Cape from the 18th to the 22nd of December. All their equipment and clothing go into their backpacks and they plan on travelling around using only public transport. Accommodation will be in inexpensive lodgings such as youth hostels and they would want to do as much sight-seeing as possible. They want to meet people and above all, make music. It has been a busy year for Jacques, but he also had to focus on his studies. He recently performed at SAMI (South African Music Institute), where he achieved a grade of 82% for guitar on a grade 8 level. He also scored 90% in his theory exams on Grade 5 level. This means that he can now boast with an international music qualification. For Jacques the academic achievements marked the highlight of his year and he hopes to be able to bring this knowledge into his own music. Local fans may have to wait a few months for Jacques’ new albums. He is working on two, an English album and an Afrikaans one. This time around the albums should be available at leading music stores as well as on digital platforms such as iTunes and Spotify. Currently, his albums can only be purchased by contacting him directly. As far as local performances are concerned, he has no immediate commitments. There will be a concert or two early in 2018, but fans will have to keep watching his Facebook page. He can be found on Facebook by searching for “Jacques Mouton Official”. 