It is suspected that sport bags were used to carry off the stolen goods.&nbsp;Date: 27 February 2017 By: Prudence BopapeViewed: 87Thieves broke into the Edgars Active Store in Louis Trichardt last Thursday morning and stole an undisclosed amount of cash and merchandise.The Makhado Police confirmed that the incident was reported on Thursday morning, 16 February, when it was time to open the store for business.The spokesperson of Edcon, Michael Rubenstein, also confirmed the incident. He said that the burglary had taken place at about 01:46. &ldquo;The store was still closed at the time and the suspects managed to gain access through the roof,&rdquo; he added.&ldquo;The store alarm was activated and the Armed Response Company was notified and was dispatched to the scene. The Edgars Active Store Management is co-operating with the SAPS to apprehend the suspects,&rdquo; said Rubenstein.The burglars gained access into the store by cutting a hole in the store&#39;s roof, climbing in and helping themselves to expensive merchandise. It is suspected that the burglars made use of several sports bags to help them carry the loot out of the store. Whilst plundering the store, the burglars happened to stumble upon the key to the safe and opened it.&ldquo;On arrival at the scene it was discovered that there was a break-in at the store and various items and an undisclosed amount of cash had been stolen. No one was injured during the incident, but unfortunately the suspects managed to escape,&rdquo; said Rubenstein.Police spokesperson Const Irene Radzilani said that investigations were ongoing.The 22-year-old Prudence Bopape from Ha-Masia village joined the Zoutnet newsroom as an intern on the 1st of February 2017.&nbsp;Prudence completed her Bachelor of Arts degree, specialising in communications, at the Northwest University. She is an avid reader and believes that a good reader makes an excellent writer. &quot;I believe that determination is the is the key to excellence,&rdquo; she says.&nbsp;Email: More photos... The hole that burglars made in the roof of the Edgars Active Store to gain access to the premises.&nbsp;The store room from where some of the items were removed.