Onward Muchagowa, Niklaas van Denter and his brother&nbsp;Deon. Photo supplied.Date: 14 February 2017 By: Isabel VenterViewed: 408*** UPDATE:The case against three suspected rhino poachers, Onward Muchagowa (34) and Deon (48) and Niklaas van Deventer (51), was adjourned in the Louis Trichardt District Court.It was expected that Niklaas and Muchagowa would&nbsp;proceed&nbsp;with their bail application today, after Deon had finished his application on Monday. One of their attorneys was not feeling well today and asked that the application be postponed until a later date. All three will remain in police custody, however.The trio was arrested early in January after they allegedly discarded a rhino horn from a moving car while police were driving behind them.Deon alleged&nbsp;yesterday while testifying during his bail application&nbsp;that the said rhino horn did not belong to him but to a certain Ruben. He stated that he had intended to contact&nbsp;the police to hand over&nbsp;information about Ruben, and in turn could be registered as a police informant.All three men will appear in court again on 1 March, and again on 6 March when the state prosecutor will give evidence as to why they should not receive bail.Die drie mans wat teregstaan op aanklagte wat met renosterstropery verband hou, Deon van Deventer (48), Niklaas van Deventer (51) en Onward Muchagowa (41), se borgaansoek het gister (13 Februarie) in die Louis Trichardt Distrikshof begin.Hulle word daarvan aangekla dat hulle onwettig in die besit van &lsquo;n renosterhoring was. Die drie staar ook klagte van die onwettige jag van renosters in die gesig.Die drie is op 6 Januarie gearresteer nadat hulle na bewering &lsquo;n afgesaagde renosterhoring in &lsquo;n plastieksak ten tyde van &lsquo;n polisiejaagtog op die Vivo-pad by hulle bakkie se venster uitgegooi het. Daar word vermoed dat die mans verbind kan word met twee afsonderlike gevalle waar renosters doodgeskiet en gestroop is van hulle horings.Deon was eerste om sy aansoek te bring. Hy het in sy aansoek ges&ecirc; dat sy betrokkenheid by die renosterhoring bloot was sodat hy die inligting later kon deel met die polisie omdat hy van voorneme was om &lsquo;n polisie-informant te word.Nadat Deon klaar getuig het is die saak uitgestel tot en met 14 Februarie (vandag) om sy broer Niklaas en Onward &lsquo;n kans te gee om hul aansoeke te bring.Isabel joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in 2009 as a reporter. She holds a BA Degree in Communication Sciences from the University of South Africa. Her beat is mainly crime and court reporting.Email: isabel@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... 