The late Mr Piet Loots (62). Photo supplied.Date: 12 February 2017 By: Andries van ZylViewed: 689It is with great sadness that the Loots family have to announce the passing of Pieter Stephanus Loots on Sunday 5 February 2017 at the Little Company of Mary Hospital in Pretoria.At the time of his death, Piet (aged 62) was receiving treatment for leukaemia, after having been&nbsp;diagnosed in December 2016.One of seven sons, Piet was born and raised in Zimbabwe. He served with distinction in the Rhodesian Air Force before moving with his family to South Africa, where he worked for Atlas Aircraft Corp for eight years. He then signed on with the South African Air Force, which brought Piet to Louis Trichardt 25 years ago. He recently retired as a warrant officer from the SAAF in November 2014.Piet was a great lover of all forms of sport. In his younger days, he was a keen member of a basketball team and enjoyed a good round of golf. Recently, he was more of an armchair sportsman, being a faithful and ardent supporter of his favourite rugby team, the Blue Bulls. He will always be fondly remembered for his sharp wit and keen sense of humour.A funeral service will be held for Piet on Friday, 10 February, at the Emmanuel Church in Louis Trichardt at 11:00. He leaves behind his devoted wife of 40 years, Gwen (Bartie) Loots and children Lloyd Loots, Ashleigh (Loots) De Jager and her husband Marius De Jager, along with grandsons Ethan and Declan. He also leaves behind four brothers, their families and many close friends.The family expressed their sincere thanks and appreciation to the local community, their extended circle of friends and family for all their love, prayers and emotional support extended in their time of grief and sorrow.Andries joined the Zoutpansberger&nbsp;and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.Email: andries@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... 