Cyclone DineoDate: 27 February 2017 By: Elmon TshikhudoViewed: 574As parts of Mozambique experienced the devastating effects of Cyclone Dineo, the much-anticipated cyclone did not pitch up in anger in the Vhembe area.Most parts of the area were on full alert from last week and most communities, including the disaster-prone Vhembe, was in panic. It was expected to hit parts of Vhembe and Mopani in Limpopo and Mpumalanga. At least seven people died in its wake in Mozambique.While many people still remember the destruction caused by Cyclone Eline in 2000, everyone welcomes the fact&nbsp;that the dreaded cyclone was reduced to an ordinary storm. It moved calmly over many areas, bringing&nbsp;much-needed rain in an area which had been hard hit by the drought.Speaking of what had transpired over the weekend, Vhembe District Municipality spokesperson Matodzi Ralushai said they had&nbsp;expected the worst in the area, but were just happy that nothing very serious had taken place in the area of their jurisdiction. He said that they had had some incidents where houses had been damaged by heavy winds over the period.&ldquo;We have seven incidents where houses were destroyed in our municipality. Three houses were damaged in the new Lim 345 municipality, three in Makhado and one in the Thulamela area. We have helped with tents and food parcels to those affected, but we are still urging those affected who do not know what to do, to contact their ward councillors.&rdquo;He further indicated that some of the roads were not accessible due to the heavy rains, and thanked the Department of Education for releasing learners early from school.The no-show of the cyclone was also good news for local farmers, who had feared the worst. &ldquo;After hearing of the cyclone, we held our cards close to our chest, not knowing what to expect. We waited, fearing for the worst, but when it was announced that the cyclone had been reduced to an ordinary storm, our fear turned into happiness and rejoicing,&rdquo; said the chairperson of the African Farmers Association of South Africa board, Mr Tshianeo Mathidi.He added that the rain meant&nbsp;life for the farmers, &ldquo;and what more can we ask for if rivers and dams are full?&nbsp;It means a lot of savings in terms of electricity for pumping water to the fields,&rdquo; he added. Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and has since been a familiar name among the newspaper&#39;s readers.Email: More photos... 