Craig Viljoen scored 46 runs for Vikings to help secure victory against Limpopo.&nbsp;Photo: Gerda Piorek.Date: 21 July 2017 By: Anton van ZylViewed: 91The Limpopo Dairy cricket league started on a very exciting note on Sunday when the Vikings team clashed with a very motivated Limpopo Dairy team. Vikings came out tops, but could only score the winning runs in the last over of the match.Limpopo batted first and were off to a reasonable start, thanks to contributions by Nimesh Watekar (13), Chris-Jan Hendriks (10) and Leon Olwage (11). Gerrie Oelofse (10) also made a useful contribution, but most of the damage was done by Gerhardus Fourie, who scored 45 from 33 balls. Gerhard Dreyer (13) helped to take the score to 130/8 after 18 overs.Vikings&rsquo; most successful bowlers were Riekert Els (3/25) and Kobus Barkhuizen (2/35). Leon Furstenburg (1/14) and Jandre Hancke (1/16) were very economical.After losing a quick wicket, Vikings&rsquo; batsmen laid into the bowling and, thanks to contributions by Craig Viljoen (46) and Kobus Barkhuizen (30), got off to an excellent start. Warno Smit (15 not out) helped to take them past the total with four wickets down.Limpopo&rsquo;s bowlers battled, but Gerhardus Fourie excelled with 1/17 in 3 overs. Jurie Cordier also took 1/14 in his three overs.On Saturday, 22 July, Vikings come up against Strikers. The following weekend, two matches will take place. On Saturday, 29 July, Limpopo will play against Strikers. The following day the Premjee team will have their first taste of the league when they play against Vikings.Anton van Zyl has been with the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror for over 27&nbsp;years. He graduated at the the Rand Afrikaans University (now University of Johannesburg) and obtained a BA Communications degree. He is a founder member of the Association of Independent Publishers.Email: anton@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... Nimesh Watekar scored 13 runs before he was bowled by Jandre Hancke. Photo: Gerda Piorek.Unknown batsman.Joubert Fourie only faced one ball during Sunday&#39;s clash.&nbsp;Photo: Gerda Piorek.Gerhardus Fourie from Limpopo scored a quick 45 runs from 33 balls.&nbsp;Photo: Gerda Piorek.Gerhardus Fourie from Limpopo scored a quick 45 runs from 33 balls.&nbsp;Photo: Gerda Piorek.Leon Furstenburg only scored two runs (not out), but helped take his team to victory. Nimesh Watekar is the wicket keeper for Limpopo Dairy.&nbsp;Photo: Gerda Piorek.