Mr Dirk Meissenheimer (middle back) pictured with the 21 members of the Working on Fire team that assisted in clearing the bush along the N1 opposite Thompsons Motors this week.Date: 02 July 2017 By: Andries van ZylViewed: 50The clean-up campaign in Louis Trichardt&#39;s green belt area along the N1, which includes the bird and tree sanctuary, is gaining momentum. A lot of help is, however, still needed to see the project through.The Vhembe Biosphere Reserve (VBR), Soutpansberg Chamber of Commerce, Limpopo Dairy, and the University of Venda&rsquo;s SARCHI Chair on Biodiversity Value and Change in the VBR are at present collaborating with the Makhado Municipality, as well as the Extended Public Works Programme (EPWP) and Working on Fire and Working for Water, to clean up the sanctuaries to create a haven and recreational space for the community.The tree sanctuary hosts a botanical display of nearly 80 indigenous trees, many of which were planted by the town&rsquo;s horticulturalists and community members in years gone by. However, the park has largely been inaccessible to the community because of &nbsp;invasive alien plants (IAPs), as well as bush encroachment. This has led to the bush&nbsp;becoming a refuge for criminals, and the site being a hotspot for crime.The vision of the group is for the community to be able get involved in local activities such as tree walks, nature talks and, of course, enjoying a picnic under the spectacular trees, thus creating a space that brings people and nature together&nbsp;in the heart of Louis Trichardt. The group will also be starting a weekly Saturday 5km park run in September this year.&ldquo;A lot of work still needs to be done,&rdquo; said Mr Dirk Meissenheimer of the Chamber of Commerce. He was spotted along the N1 opposite Thompson&#39;s Motors on Tuesday where he accompanied a team of 21 Working on Fire (WoF) personnel who were busy with debushing operations. &ldquo;These guys are helping us free of charge and we greatly appreciate it. They will be here until Wednesday,&rdquo; Meissenheimer said. The WoF team was from the Rossbach plantation at Elim.Meissenheimer urged the public to get involved as there is a serious need for further assistance. &ldquo;Whether you are willing and able to volunteer over a weekend to help clear IAPs, volunteer at the park run or would like your business to sponsor eye-catching and informative signage or&nbsp;maintenance and transport costs of the teams coming in to do the work, we would like to hear from you!&rdquo; said Meissenheimer.People who can help are urged to send an email to Jaco Voigt at jaco@limpopodairy.co.za, Cath Vise at cath@vhembebiosphere.org or Jamy Jonker at admin@soutpansbergchamber.co.za. Alternatively, visit the VBR&rsquo;s website at www.vhembebiosphere.org or phone Meissenheimer at Tel 082&nbsp;789 3927.Andries joined the Zoutpansberger&nbsp;and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.Email: andries@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... 