Ready for the huge task ahead - the new municipal manager of the Musina Municipality, Mr Nathi Tshiwanammbi.Date: 16 July 2017 By: Viewed: 135The council of Musina Local Municipality&nbsp;appointed Mr Nathi Tshiwanammbi as the new municipal manager during a special council meeting held last Friday. His five-year term will be effective from 1 August.The position of municipal manager became vacant after the resignation of Mr Johnson Matshivha six months ago.Mayor Mihloti Muhlope said it was important to fill all senior management positions to make sure that the municipality delivered&nbsp;services effectively. She said Council had&nbsp;confidence in Tshiwanammbi and there was&nbsp;no doubt that he would take the municipality to a higher level. &ldquo;Given the fact that he is not new to local government, coupled with his proven leadership qualities and academic excellence, we are confident beyond doubt that Tshiwanammbi is the right man to occupy this position.&rdquo;Tshiwanammbi promised to perform his duties to the best of his ability. &ldquo;The task before me is huge, but I&rsquo;m happy that I have a dedicated team of councillors and officials who will help me to realize my dream of improving service delivery to the people of Musina. Although there are some challenges that the municipality is facing, it gives me courage because there are some areas where we are doing very well in terms of service delivery. I&rsquo;m ready to steer this ship in the right direction for the benefit of all the people of Musina.&rdquo;At the time of his appointment, Tshiwanammbi was the general manager for economic and development planning at Musina Municipality, the position he held from October 2012. He also served as acting municipal manager from December 2016 to date.Before joining Musina Municipality, he worked as programme manager for economic and development planning for the South African Local Government Association (SALGA) in North West between 2009 and 2012. He also served as town planner for the eMalahleni Local Municipality between 2006 and 2009 and worked at various private companies as planner, land surveyor, project manager and researcher.Tshiwanammbi is a graduate of the universities of Venda, Pretoria and the Witwatersrand. He also completed various short courses from recognized educational institutions around the country.&nbsp;&nbsp; He is currently furthering his studies with the University of Venda and the University of Pretoria.&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;Email: More photos... 