Minister JoeMaswanganyi (right) and Musina Mayor&nbsp;Cllr Mihloti Muhlope interact&nbsp;with taxi drivers at the Beit Bridge border post.Date: 20 July 2017 By: Viewed: 102The Minister of Transport, Mr Joe Maswanganyi, has warned drivers to observe the rules of the road to decrease the high number of accidents taking place on roads in South Africa.Maswanganyi visited the area last week and interacted with taxi, long-distance and local drivers at the Beit Bridge border post, the local taxi rank and the N1 road.After the interactions, Maswanganyi and his entourage did a law-enforcement roadblock at the national road between Musina and Beit Bridge border post, where several drivers of unroadworthy vehicles were issued with fines. Cross-border trucks and passenger vehicles were also checked for&nbsp;valid documents to transport goods and people.Maswanganyi said the biggest cause of road crashes in South Africa was driver error. &ldquo;This includes not only the honest mistake or error in judgement, but also driver recklessness, driver inattention and many other factors. It is important that we strive both to reduce these errors on our side and adjust our driving to be more attentive and defend ourselves against the threats of errors by other road users. It is also important to implement driving techniques that enable drivers to address identified hazards in a predictable manner.&rdquo;He cautioned drivers to be more careful when driving. &ldquo;Continuously look in your mirrors and scan the road ahead, checking for hazards and slowing traffic, so you can anticipate problems before they develop. Always drive within the speed limit and anticipate what another driver might do wrong and make the appropriate adjustment to reduce your risk. Good drivers are courteous, kind and respectful to other motorists. They do not drive under the influence of drugs or any intoxicating substance.&rdquo;He also warned pedestrians to play their part to be safe on the roads. &ldquo;Pedestrians must always walk on the demarcated areas and cross the road in a designated area. Drinking and walking on the road is another cause of accidents and we urge people not to use public roads after drinking sprees.&rdquo;Email: More photos... 