The luxury Mercedes Benz that police recovered after it got stuck when the driver tried to illegally cross the Limpopo River. It is suspected that the vehicle was stolen from a rental company in Durban.&nbsp;Photo: Limpopo Police Communications.Date: 27 July 2017 By: Viewed: 2530Police in Limpopo this week recovered six stolen vehicles destined to be smuggled across the borders of South Africa.Members of the tactical response team, public order police and K9 dog unit were supported by the South African National Defence Force in this crime intelligence-driven operation to retrieve the stolen vehicles. The operation specifically targets the areas along the borderline between Pafuri, Beitbridge and Pontdrift.One of the vehicles, a Mercedes Benz, was recovered on Wednesday (26 July) when it got stuck while trying to cross the Limpopo River. Police arrested a 28-year-old suspect in connection with the incident and he was charged with the possession of a suspected stolen vehicle. According to the police it is suspected that the vehicle was stolen in Durban from a rental company and was destined for Zimbabwe.Police also recovered a Range Rover en route to Malawi and arrested the driver. An amount of R30&nbsp;000 that was found in his possession was confiscated as part of the police&rsquo;s further investigations into the matter.Another Ford Ranger bakkie was intercepted by police when the occupants tried to cross the Limpopo River. The suspects, realizing there is trouble, abandoned the bakkies and fled into the nearby bushes.Three more vehicles were recovered along the N1 north of Musina during this operation, namely an Audi A6, Mercedes Benz C180 and a Datsun Go. Most of the vehicles, said the police, belonged to rental companies.The two arrested suspects are expected to appear before the Musina Magistrate&rsquo;s Court during the course of this week.Email: More photos... The luxury Mercedes Benz that police recovered after it got stuck when the driver tried to illegally cross the Limpopo River. It is suspected that the vehicle was stolen from a rental company in Durban.&nbsp;Photo: Limpopo Police Communications.The Ford Ranger bakkie that was recovered during the police&#39;s operation.&nbsp;Photo: Limpopo Police Communications.The Range Rover that was recovered during the police&#39;s operation.&nbsp;Photo: Limpopo Police Communications.