Seated during the launch are, from left to right,&nbsp; Mapungubwe Cultural Landscape Heritage Festival event manager&nbsp;Freedom Boikanyo,&nbsp;founder and director Makheda Khosa and public relations coordinator Debra Tshikovhi. They are photographed with members of the media, invited guests and artists who attended the media briefing at Musina Municipality&#39;s offices.Date: 23 July 2017 By: Viewed: 276The second edition of the annual Mapungubwe Cultural Landscape Heritage Festival (MCLHF) was unveiled during a glittering media briefing that was held at Musina Municipality&#39;s offices on Monday.The five-day event, aimed at showcasing music, culture, arts and wildlife, will be held from 20 to 24 September at Mapungubwe World Heritage Site, outside Musina.Sponsored by the Department of Arts and Culture, Miyelani Travel, Land Rover, SANParks and the South African Federation of Entertainers, among others, the initiative has also roped in the South African, Zimbabwean and Botswana Tourism Boards. This is because the main event will take place at the confluence hill of the Shashe River, which connects South Africa, Botswana and Zimbabwe.The founder and director of the initiative, Makheda Khosa, said the festival aimed&nbsp;to increase exposure of Mapungubwe through fostering and nurturing the existing partnership between South Africa, Zimbabwe and Botswana through culture, heritage and music. &ldquo;Our objective is to ensure that the Mapungubwe landscape and heritage are&nbsp;promoted through storytelling and indigenous music to receive optimal growth and sustainability. This is the only indigenous music project that promotes heritage, tourism and culture concurrently while promoting the SANParks brand. Through this initiative, we will also be able to share information and knowledge on what Mapungubwe is all about.&rdquo;MCLHF event manager&nbsp;Freedom Boikanyo said the initiative would&nbsp;assist in&nbsp;marketing Mapungubwe and its history massively. &ldquo;All the activities will take place at the park, which will give an opportunity for revelers to experience wildlife while, at the same time, gaining knowledge about their culture and heritage. The activities will include the Mapungubwe lecture, a fashion show, a gala dinner, and two music festivals. We are finalizing the bookings of international, national and regional music icons to form part of this event&#39;s music line-up.&rdquo;Musina municipal spokesperson&nbsp;Wilson Dzebu said the municipality supported&nbsp;the initiative because it would also benefit local people. &ldquo;We expect thousands of people to come and attend this event and it will have a positive spinoff in terms of our local businesspeople.&rdquo;Email: More photos... Mapungubwe Cultural Landscape Heritage Festival founder and director&nbsp;Ms Makheda Khosa addresses members of the media, supported by event manager Freedom Boikanyo (left) and public relations coordinator&nbsp;Debra Tshikovhi.