Tshitereke Matibe was re-elected as the regional chairperson.Date: 02 July 2017 By: Kaizer NengovhelaViewed: 83A former Vhembe District mayor, Tshitereke Matibe, was re-elected as the Vhembe regional chairperson of the ANC during the two-day&nbsp;conference held at Tshedza Lodge on Friday and Saturday.The conference was scheduled to take place on 2 and 3 June, but was postponed after several disruptions. The meeting was marked by squabbles between delegates&nbsp;over the accreditation of members. Two contesting factions clashed over which regional executive committee members should be allowed to vote at the conference.During the weekend&rsquo;s conference, Matibe beat his challenger and former Thulamela municipal manager and provincial ANC spokesperson, Adv Makonde Mathivha. Matibe received 161 votes to Mathivha&rsquo;s 153.Anderson Mudunungu, who was elected regional secretary, received 169 votes against the 144 for David Muthavhasindi. Dowelani Nenguda was elected as deputy chairperson, Moses Maluleke is the&nbsp;new deputy secretary and Mihloti Muhlope was elected as treasurer.Prior to the conference, there were doubts about Matibe&rsquo;s chances to be re-elected, as many branches had nominated Mathivha as their preferred candidate.Limpopo Premier and provincial ANC chairperson&nbsp;Stan Mathabatha&nbsp;said that the conference was about the &ldquo;continued fight for economic freedom&rdquo;. He congratulated the newly elected leaders and said that they trust these representatives to be humble and serve the movement with distinction. &ldquo;The ANC Limpopo is pleased with the smooth manner in which the conference was conducted and concluded its business,&rdquo; said Mathabatha.The Premier said that it is the aim of the government to ensure that they deliver on the objectives of a society envisioned in the Freedom&nbsp;Charter. &ldquo;We must make it our primary mission to root out corruption wherever it manifests itself. It is for this reason that we call on all our people to join us in our endeavour and renewed efforts to defeat crass materialism, consumerism and other ills that threaten the moral fibre of our society. Those found guilty must be made to pay for their misdeeds. We cannot allow people to use state&nbsp;resources&nbsp;for personal enrichment,&rdquo; said Mathabatha.Matibe said that the newly elected leadership in the region would strengthen local government in terms of rendering services to the people. &ldquo;We need to ensure that our municipalities are delivering the needed services to the people,&rdquo; he said.Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province&#39;s premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.zaMore photos... 