Bargain buy! Old lady only drove it to church on Sundays. Mechanically sound, but needs a little TLC. Low milage.Date: 01 July 2017 By: Anton van ZylViewed: 468You&rsquo;re in the market for a car, but you&rsquo;re not sure what you should do. A new car would be very nice, but this&nbsp;is an expensive option and if you go for all the bells and whistles, you may be more than just out of pocket. So, it may be wiser to look for a reliable second-hand vehicle, where you can get much more &ldquo;bang for your buck&rdquo;.To make this decision easier for readers, we spoke to a few of the region&rsquo;s experienced motor dealers to find out what they would recommend when buying a second-hand vehicle.Age or kilometres?Hussain Ayob, owner/manager of Ayob Motors in Louis Trichardt, prefers buying vehicles with low kilometres. &ldquo;You need to take both the mileage and the age in consideration, but I don&rsquo;t like cars with a high mileage,&rdquo; he says.Johan de Beer, Vehicle Sales Manager at Imperial GM in Louis Trichardt, reckons age and kilometres are both important, but warns potential buyers to check if there is any discrepancy between the age and the kilometres. &ldquo;The AA determines that anything between 25 000km and 28 000km per year is reasonable,&rdquo; he says.Diesel or petrol?Stephan Botha, dealer principal at Hyundai Motors in Louis Trichardt, says he prefers the diesel engines with more torque. He admits that the choice depends on the customer&rsquo;s application and that the mileage and age of the vehicle are also important.Ayob prefers petrol engines, but his preference is influenced by the maintenance cost of the vehicles. He regards petrol engines as perhaps a safer option, especially if the vehicles are getting older.De Beer agrees, and recommends petrol engines. &ldquo;I have found that petrol engines are a little bit cheaper to maintain, especially when it comes to servicing. On diesel engines you get the benefit of a little better fuel economy,&rdquo; he says.Is it safe to buy online?Ayob strongly advises against buying vehicles online from private dealers. He reckons the risks are simply too much and there are too many fraudsters around. The situation is, however, different when buying online from a reputable dealer. &ldquo;Always inspect the vehicle at the dealer before you buy,&rdquo; he says.De Beer reckons that it is safe to buy online, but only from a reputable dealer. &ldquo;When the deal is too good to be true, it usually is,&rdquo; he says. He also warned against the practice of paying someone a &ldquo;holding deposit&rdquo;.Tell-tale signs of a bad dealBotha believes that the first thing a prospective buyer should ask for, is the service record. &ldquo;Also check for fluid leaks and make sure no major structural repairs were done,&rdquo; he says.Ayob says he normally focuses on the paintwork, looking for signs such as overspray, indicating that panelbeating work has&nbsp;been done on the vehicle. He also checks for play on the steering column and gear lever.De Beer is also very clinical when it comes to inspecting a car. &ldquo;The first thing I look for, is the kilometre reading. If the car is 10 years old, it should have 200 000km on the clock, as this is normal. A&nbsp;car with 50 000km on after 10 years can only mean one thing:&nbsp;it&rsquo;s been standing at the panelbeaters for a long time,&rdquo; he says.In conclusionThe experienced dealers in second-hand vehicles agree that it is not wise to try and find the absolute bargain, because this&nbsp;inevitably leads to disappointment. The &ldquo;quiet&rdquo; gearbox on the 30-year-old bakkie may very well be because the seller filled it up with banana slices. The same seller may have cracked a few eggs into the radiator to temporarily stop the leaks. (Whether these quick fixes actually work, is not certain, but there are enough horror tales to emphasize that you have to be very careful.)Buy from a reputable dealer. Test-drive the vehicle properly before you make a decision. Don&rsquo;t be pushed into making a fast decision.Lastly &ndash; remember that the law is on the side of the consumer and, should you want to opt out of the deal within the cooling-off period, you can cancel the agreement.&nbsp;Anton van Zyl has been with the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror for over 25&nbsp;years. He graduated at the the Rand Afrikaans University (now University of Johannesburg) and obtained a BA Communications degree. He is a founder member of the Association of Independent Publishers.Email: anton@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... 