The late Mr Rajendra Bhanjee (69). Photo supplied.Date: 22 July 2017 By: Andries van ZylViewed: 230It is with great sadness that the residents of Louis Trichardt learned of the death of Mr Rajendra Bhanjee (69) who passed away on 27 June.&ldquo;He was a man of patience, humility, dignity, love and respect &hellip; a man who literally lived for his family and friends,&rdquo; said the family.Rajen, as he was known, led a very simple life. &ldquo;He enjoyed cars from young and spent the first few years of his career as a motor mechanic. He never missed an opportunity to rescue families in need from their mechanical breakdowns in the surrounding mountain routes in the middle of the night,&rdquo; said the family. Later, his love for cars extended to panelbeating and the trading of cars. &ldquo;He lived a good life - one filled with adventure and loving relationships,&rdquo; said the family.With his wife Vanita supporting him, Rajen operated a number of retail businesses around Louis Trichardt and Malamulele area over the years. At one&nbsp;stage, he was well known as Roger&#39;s while having Roger&#39;s Take Away. He was also known as Mr JK when he had Jay Kay Gift Shop in Eltivillas and then Louis Trichardt Stationers in Krogh Street.The late Rajen leaves behind his four daughters. With each of them, he shared a special bond. To his four sons-in-law he served as a father figure. &ldquo;Always understanding and supportive. He deeply loved his grandchildren who filled his time in the last years of his life,&rdquo; said the family. Rajen shared a very close bond with the four sons of &nbsp;his late brother Jaswant&nbsp;(known as JOE) as his own sons, who have been so supportive in every way.The Jeram Bhanjee family thanked all, including the doctors, community, families and friends, who supported them with&nbsp;prayers and always gave Rajen words of encouragement during his years of illness. &ldquo;The family extend&nbsp;their appreciation for the support from one and all during our time of bereavement,&rdquo; said the family.Andries joined the Zoutpansberger&nbsp;and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.Email: andries@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... 