Date: 07 July 2017 By: Kaizer NengovhelaViewed: 23The Makhado Municipality launched its new website last Thursday and residents should now be able to have much easier access to information such as by-laws and budgets. The website also hosts the latest news about the municipality as well as tender advertisements and forms.The mayor of the Makhado Municipality, Cllr Shonisani Sinyosi, said people will be able to access more information about the municipality through this website. Tourists will be able to get information about tourism attractions in the Makhado municipality area and a calendar with all the relevant dates is also available.&ldquo;The website has an online tender box that allows for digital submissions of tenders. There is nothing like this elsewhere,&rdquo; she said. According to Sinyosi the municipality can now also facilitate e-procurement auctions, which allow tender issuers to buy goods and services.She said the municipality has taken a great step in marketing itself. &ldquo;There are many events taking place in the Makhado municipality and people will be able to know what is going on in the municipality through this website,&rdquo; she said. The site, launched with the aim of providing a real-time platform for all information about the municipality, includes a tender section that enables the easy uploading of tender invitations and also the submitting of tender bids.The easy-to-use website is also responsive, meaning it can be accessed via computer or mobile device.According to Ms Cindi Mbatha from the State Information Technology Agency (SITA), all municipalities should have their own websites for communication and marketing. &ldquo;SITA is busy connecting all local municipalities (to their communities) with websites,&rdquo; said Mbatha. She thanked the Makhado municipality for their interest in connecting with the rest of the world.Interested people can access the website at www.makhado.gov.za.Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province&#39;s premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.zaMore photos... Makhado Municipality Mayor Cllr Shonisani Sinyosi browsing through&nbsp;the new website.Municipal officials and SITA officers pose after the official launch&nbsp;of the new &nbsp;website.