Date: 19 May 2017 By: Anton van ZylViewed: 28The last clashes in the Limpopo Cricket Club league were finalised this weekend, paving the way for two very exciting semifinals. This coming Sunday morning, the Powarfix team will play against Strikers, followed by the clash between Limpopo and Vikings that&nbsp;afternoon.In the last of the league clashes played on Sunday, the Strikers team had to first battle it out against Limpopo before they met the strong Powarfix team later the same day.On Sunday morning, Limpopo batted first, scoring 101/7 in 18 overs. The match was shortened because of a wet pitch, following the rain the previous day. Limpopo&rsquo;s top batsmen were TE Smit (25 off 18 balls) and Gerhardus Fourie (22 not out off 17 balls). Vic Grobler (2/6 in two overs) was the only bowler who could take more than one wicket.Limpopo&rsquo;s bowlers were clearly too strong for Strikers, with TE Smit (4/9 in 3 overs) and Gerrie Oelofse (2/10 in 2 overs) doing most of the damage. Gerhardus Fourie also took 3/20 in four overs and helped to knock out Strikers with only 70 runs on the scoreboard. The only Strikers batsman with a degree of success&nbsp;was Etienne Hendriks, who scored 20 off 16 balls.&nbsp;In their match against Powarfix, Strikers batted first and scored 63 before being sent back to the pavillion. Only Christo Boshoff (21 from 23 balls) had some measure of success. Powarfix&rsquo;s most lethal bowlers were Ikram Kamboli (4/7 in 4 overs) and Richard Lambert (Jr) who took 2/17 in four overs.Powarfix experienced no real trouble in chasing this score and passed the total with two wickets down. Amir Bux top-scored with 27 from 26 balls. Strikers&rsquo; best bowler was Riekert Els, who took 2/21 in four overs.Anton van Zyl has been with the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror for over 25&nbsp;years. He graduated at the the Rand Afrikaans University (now University of Johannesburg) and obtained a BA Communications degree. He is a founder member of the Association of Independent Publishers.Email: anton@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... 