Gwenllian Rees Evans (24) proudly displays the ring and gold medal she won as part of Team England Paracheer, who were crowned world champions in their division. Photo supplied.Date: 13 May 2017 By: Andries van ZylViewed: 62Former resident Gwenllian Rees Evans (24) is now a world champion, forming part of Team England Paracheer, the English cheerleading team for the disabled which scooped up the gold medal and world title in their division during the World Championships in Orlando, Florida (USA), at the end of April.The 24-year-old&rsquo;s story is truly a remarkable one.Born in Louis Trichardt in 1992, she attended Sibasa Primary School and later Ridgeway Independent School in Louis Trichardt from 2003 to 2004. Although she passed her entrance exam to Ridgeway College, Gwenllian was, however, refused enrolment because she was of a much younger age than the other children. &nbsp;This prompted her family, who lived and worked in Thohoyandou until 2004, to return&nbsp;to the United Kingdom where Gwenllian attended the Newcastle Under Lyme School (NULS) in the English Midlands.After graduating from NULS, Gwenllian was accepted by King&#39;s College London (KCL) to study for two medical degrees, one in neuroscience and one in medicine.While studying, Gwenllian joined the KCL cheerleading team. However, tragedy struck&nbsp;when, after two years, she suffered a brain aneurysm and had to be rushed to the Queen Elizabeth Neuroscience Hospital in London. Here she was diagnosed with an AVM (Arterio Venous Malformation) which caused blood vessels in her brain to burst, resulting in some memory and cognitive loss.Although she had to stop her studies while being treated, this did not hold back this bright young woman. She could re-sit an exam that she missed and, despite all the trauma, she successfully completed her neuroscience degree.After several scans and tests, Gwenllian was accepted for Gamma Knife Radiation treatment and had a metal frame bolted to her face. She was then treated with an array of 210 gamma radiation sources, concentrated to focus on the malignant part of her brain and the unwanted veins were burned away as a completely non-invasive procedure.It took some two years for Gwenllian to recover and get back to normal while continuously being treated at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital. She then returned to cheerleading and joined the England Paracheer Team of disabled cheerleaders.Apart from being crowned world champions, Gwenllian and her cheerleading team mates also won several other gold and silver medals. The all-female elite Team England were also crowned world champions, beating 13 other countries. The English mixed team won silver, beating Puerto Rico, who came third, while Chile took top honours.Gwenllian is currently in London to complete&nbsp;her studies and is due to receive her degree in medicine in July this year.Andries joined the Zoutpansberger&nbsp;and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.Email: andries@zoutnet.co.zaMore photos... Team England Paracheer, the English cheerleading team for the disabled, which scooped up the gold medal and world title in their division during the World Championships in Orlando, Florida (USA), at the end of April. Kneeling in front right is 24-year-old Gwenllian Rees Evans. Photo supplied.